Mary Ann Nacion-Nakpil
+65 9720 4395
Mean_nacion@yahoo.com

Personal Details
Visa Status:            Permanent Resident
Visa Grant #: 0041600345214
Visa Grant Date:       25 August 2014
Passport Number:     EB1205709 (PHILIPPINES)
Birth Date:              08 December 1978


Profile Summary
Experienced IT professional having worked across software testing (manual and automated), Systems development, applications and technical support, test/project management, and teaching.


Core Competencies
1.    Project Management
Multiple project oversight and delivery, risk management, resource allocation, performance management, mentoring, coaching
2.    Unit, Application/Enterprise and User Acceptance Testing, (Quality Assurance)
Test Planning, Test Execution, Test Automation using QTP and Vbscript; Performance Testing using HP Performance Center; Test Director and Quality Center; CMM/CMMi and ITIL trained/knowledgeable
3.    Software Development/Maintenance
Systems Analysis and Design, programming using VB 6.0, VB.Net, ASP, COBOL, C/C++, Pascal, FoxPro and Assembly.  RDBMS: SQL Server; Other tools: MS Access, Crystal Report Designer, Agile Development
4.    Technical Support/Technical Help Desk
Trained and experienced in handling technical issues and customer support.
5.    Other relevant competencies
Citrix, ClearCase, ClearQuest, MS Sharepoint, Beyond Compare, MS Project, Perforce, JIRA


Job Experiences
Barclays Capital Services Limited Singapore Branch
Test Lead AVP (April 23, 2007 to Present)
Agency Derivatives Team – Futures Custody, Clearing and Settlement

ADS Futures CCS team provides premier execution and clearing services to institutional asset managers, the hedge fund community and other financial institutions.  The team ensures that execution alternatives are designed to accommodate dynamic trading demands, and clearing solutions interface seamlessly with clients’ global infrastructure, processing and reporting requirements

Role Description:
1.    Involve in the complete testing life cycle of the applications relating to Futures Custody, Clearing and Settlement under the Agency Derivatives Services team: analysis of business and test requirements, preparation of test plans and strategies, test execution, defect/issue reporting and management, signing off of testing activities, and creation and maintenance of test automation framework.
2.    Liaise with the Tech lead to discuss further strategy to automate tests, when possible and necessary; Define, design and automate test scripts
3.    Create manual test cases where automation is not applicable
4.    Liaise with the Project Manager on schedules, scope and resources (relating to testing activities)
5.    Liaise with team’s Business Analysts on requirements and defect management
6.    Coordinate issues and defects with the development team
7.    Act as PPOC/UAT/F2B Coordinator for several testing projects making sure that testing deliverables are on-track and progressing as planned until project closure
8.    Involved in post-release testing on several projects (vendor applications)to ensure that solutions/changes delivered work properly
9.    Involved in creating non-testing automated tools which helped the team improve on process such as the following:
a.    Client Migration Tool - The tool’s purpose is to migrate data from the legacy application to the new system.  This ensured that the relationship/association between data is preserved during the migration
b.    Automated Metric Collection (Timeline Report Generation) – The tool automatically generates the timeline metric collected from the reporting applications which was also automatically sent to the management team for analysis
c.     Brokerage give-up reference remediation tool – The tool was created to patch some gaps between billing systems.  This gap which made it difficult to bill brokers due to the absence of give-up references
10.  Coach and mentor other testing resources within the team (both offshore and onshore)
11.  Project oversight – Ransys Test Automation Project.  Delegates and work closely with other automation testers to make sure that QA process is followed and testing goals are delivered on schedule
12.  Prepares testing/automation related documents for team’s Knowledge Transfer (KT) use
13.  Acted as Automation Projects SME and liaise/coordinate with the Project SMEs to discuss feasibility, strategy, schedule, resources, risks and issues
14.  Acted as automation SME using QTP, LoadRunner and VBScript as tools
15.  Actively involved in the training program for co-testers (facilitated technical trainings such as MS Excel for Testers (How to use excel as a complimentary testing tool))

Tools/Technologies Used:
Ø  HP QC (ALM)
Ø  QTP 10.5 and higher
Ø  HP Performance Center
Ø  VBScript/VBA
Ø  Beyond Compare
Ø  Oracle/Sybase
Ø  Unix
Ø  Excel Macro

Accenture (Manila Delivery Center)
September 1, 2006 – April 13, 2007
Team Leader, Performance Test Team
(Client: AT&T)

The Performance Test team sits under Project Windchimes which is AT&T’s outsourced testing function for most of the company’s Ordering and other related systems.  The team, modeled as an offshore-onshore team, is involved in the end-to-end Performance testing.

Role Description:
1.    Team projects oversight and counterpart liaison (admin activities) – coordinates with both project manager and US counterparts on schedules and timelines, project required skill set, issues and risks, and time tracking
2.    Took on POC (Point of Contact) role on several projects – worked on performance testing (analysis, planning, scripting, execution and after testing documentation) on web and java-based performance testing projects
3.    Actively implemented CMMi processes

Tools/Technologies Used:
Ø  LoadRunner
Ø  VuGen
Ø  Mercury Performance Center
Ø  Mercury Quality Center
Ø  VBScript




Accenture (Manila Delivery Center)
September 27, 2004 – August 31, 2006
Senior Software Engineer, Data Services Team
(Client: AT&T)

The Data Services team also sit under Project Windchimes and is mainly responsible for the functional testing of both the legacy and new Ordering (and related) system of AT&T.  The team focuses on test automation but was also involved in manual testing (where automation is not applicable).

Role Description:
1.    Led the Data Services Test Automation team during test preparation, test execution and after testing activities.  Mentioned activities includes creation of test plans, kick-off documents, other defect prevention documents, issues and defect logs, test data collection, setting up of the test data, pre-testing of the automated scripts and applications, test data validation, test execution, result troubleshooting, issues and defects reporting, monitoring of issues and defect closure, data cleanup and preparation of final test results.
2.    Led the team in modifying existing automated scripts and develop new scripts for other team tasks, which can be automated.
3.    Ensures that all scripts are base-lined and backed-up in Quality Center before and after execution proper.  This makes tester easily look for issues/defects after executing a post-code drop/after application modification.
4.    Worked on process improvement projects such as process automation such as:
a.     Automated test data collection – test data were automatically created from the DB based on the test scenarios.  These data are then stored in a spreadsheet for test execution use.  The tool also automatically scraps out used/invalidated test data from the spreadsheet.
b.    Automated consolidation/sync of all timesheet applications.  As a vendor team, we used several timesheet applications which made it redundant to input records.  The tool made sure that whatever is entered in one application, all other timesheet system are updated of the change.
5.    Established CMMi processes in the team

Tools/Technologies used:
Ø  QTP 8.2
Ø  Mercury Quality Center

Kenway Management Services
June 2004 – June 2006
IT Consultant

KMS is a small-scaled company that caters data encoding projects for local banks.  The data encoding system is used by the company to enter data into a data store and then convert them into a format required by the client.

Role Description:
1.    Led the KMS Multi-level Encoding Project of Kenway Management whose primary clients are banks.  As IT consultant, was involved in the complete Systems Development Life Cycle - requirements gathering and analysis, development and delegation, testing, deployment and maintenance; also took part in designing the organization’s network infrastructure.
2.    Tasked to oversee and resolve any system/infra-related issues the organization encountered.
3.    Trained some 20 users of the system
4.    Involved in other IT projects of the organization (directory system, data retrieval and formatting program, etc.)

Tools and Environment Used:
Ø  Visual Basic 6.0
Ø  SQL Server 2000
Ø  Windows 2003 Server
Ø  Crystal Report
Ø  MS Access


Standard Chartered Bank
October 10, 2001 – October 6, 2004
Technical Support Officer, Business Account Services

The Business Account Services Team is part of SCB’s Wealth Management Department.  It focuses on on-boarding small to medium-scale clients.  BAS product offering comes with some software/systems that could help its clients to do reconciliation easier.

Role Description:
1.    Technically supports the Business Accounts and Services Products.  Presents to clients the product, technically train them of the product’s “how tos”, deal with issues and concerns product may encounter. Products include Accounts payable – Cheque Writing system, SSSNet(Social Security System) EDI System, and the (Bureau of Internal Revenue)BIR’s online System (interface only).
2.    Developed program that could patch on existing system which client may use integrating with the product the Bank offers them.  Modify/Customize the product according to the client’s need.
3.    Implement the system into the client’s organization and closely monitor whatever issues it may encounter.
4.    Coordinates with internal and external contacts for issues.
Tools and Environment Used:
Ø  VB 6.0
Ø  ASP
Ø  MS Access
Ø  SQL Server
Ø  Crystal Reports
Ø  HTML

STI College
June 10 1999 – March 5, 2002
IT Instructor

Role Description:
1.    Tasked to handle both lecture and laboratory session of the Computer Science Class assigned to me.  Among the subjects taught were: Systems Analysis and Design, Computer Architecture, Software Engineering, Logic Design and Analysis, Algorithms Design and Analysis, Programming in C, Programming in Visual Basic, Compiler Design and others of the same sort.
2.    Assigned to take the Thesis Coordination task and work with people from different other schools.
3.    Tasked to be a thesis adviser for several groups.

Education
The George Washington University
June 5, 2013
Associate’s Certificate in IT Project Management

Pamantasan ng Lungsod ng Maynila (University of the City of Manila)
1994-1998
Bachelor of Science in Computer Science
