ARPIT PATEL
50 Mossfiel Retreat, Landsdale, WA-6065 | 0411894918 | arpitkup@gmail.com
Summary of Experience
Over 7 years of experience in Software Testing with expertise in Test Automation from different layers of testing pyramid.
Expert in developing and Maintaining Test Automation framework for various test automation tools like LISA, TOSCA, M-eux, Specflow (BDD), WATIN and many other open source toolsets.
Extensive experience in Web Service testing, API Testing, Service Oriented Architecture (SOAP) Testing, XML, WSDL, REST and JSON using CA LISA.
Good working knowledge and experience in Service Virtualization using CA LISA.
Proficient in TOSCA functional automation tool with ability to customized TOSCA functionalities if not supported out of box.
Good exposure to programming languages like C#, Java Script and VBS.
Involved in POC of various automation tools and managed the rollout to wider testing team.
Experience in integrating automation tools with Teamcity CI (Continuous Integration) tool.
Experience in design and delivery of In-house training on test automation tools like LISA and TOSCA.
Over 3 years of experience in working on Agile projects and have strong knowledge of Waterfall Software Development Lifecycle.
Experience in conducting and managing Functional, Integration, Acceptance, Regression and Production Verification testing.
Expertise in analyzing Business Requirements, Technical Requirements, and High Level Design Documents.
Experience
Senior techincal test consultant | bankwest | July 2011 - current
Collaborated with senior Management team to work on the design of new testing strategies. Later played integral part in rolling out these new testing strategies to newly formed Solution Testing team.
Involved in LISA and TOSCA PoC, implementation and rollout.
Designed and developed Service layer tests using LISA for SOAP, XML, WSDL, REST and JSON protocols for various internal systems and our native mobile apps.
Involved in creating virtual models using LISA for Internal Core Banking system to support performance testing.
Designed and delivered trainings to internal colleagues on Agile Testing, LISA Introduction and TOSCA Advanced training by conducting various workshops which included theoretical as well hands-on experience.
Involved in extending LISA and TOSCA functionalities using multiple programming languages (C#, Java script and VBS) to meet our testing needs.
Integrated LISA service layer tests and TOSCA functional tests with TeamCity Continuous Integration tool to enable project team to receive faster feedback on integration of newly deployed code.
Provide on-going support to our internal colleagues with their automation queries and concerns.
Involved in Solution Testing initiative – Continuous Delivery by assisting colleagues with technical as well as system knowledge perspectives.
Provide support to our Performance Testing team when they reuse Service Layer Test to conduct performance testing.

senior test analyst | bankwest | november 2009 – june 2011
Review business requirements, functional specifications and gathering application knowledge from business analysts, designers and developers to identify and understand the project needs.
Developed and Reviewed test strategy, test plan, test scenarios and test cases for manual, exploratory and automated testing for Web based, Windows and Mainframe applications.
Responsible for functional, Integration, Acceptance and Regression testing and escalate bugs discovered during testing into the defect tracking system (Quality Centre) and track them until they are closed.
Participated in bug triage meetings with developers to validate the severity of the bug and responsible for tracking of the Defect.
Worked on the first pilot Agile project at Bankwest. Adapted and implemented Agile testing practices like Exploratory testing, BDD, ATTD, Test Automation, Continuous integration.
Involved in POC of various BDD tools and web-drivers in the market and played integral part in tools selection process.
Developed and executed automated test scripts using .NET (C#) with Specflow as BDD tool and Watin and White as drivers.
business & UAT analyst | bankwest | march 2008 –october 2009
Co-ordinate Production Verification Testing (PVT) and Data Migration Activities e.g. Reviewing PVT Test script, Verify the results to ensure new and existing functionality is working as expected.
Write and execute End-to-End system test cases for Web based, Windows and Mainframe applications.
Support SIT, UAT and Production testing to analyse and investigate and resolve defects
Working with Business Analysts and Development Teams to investigate and correct defects and inconsistencies based on the testing results.
Working with SMEs and IT Business Analysts in creating high level Business Requirement Documents (BRDs) and Functional Specification documents.
Management of 2 significant system release implementation including Post Implementation support activities.
Accountable for numerous Project Deliverables including Business Readiness, Business Impact Summary, Implementation Plan & Post Implementation Activities.
Education
Master of Computer Science, Edit Cowan University, Perth, WA
Bachelor of Computer Application, SP University, India
Certification
ISTQB Foundation and Advanced certification
TOSCA Technical Training
Reference
Caroline Carder
Head of Solution Testing, Bankwest
Contact No: 0417917286
